.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH JOB 7 "4 October 2005" "Linux Utilities" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
job \- Linux jobs overview
.SH DESCRIPTION
A job is a group of related processes all descended from a point of
entry process and identified by a unique job identifier (\f4jid\f1).  A job
can contain multiple process groups or sessions, and all processes in
one of these subgroups can only be contained within a single job.
.PP
Not every process on the system is part of a job.  That is, only
processes which are started by a login initiator like login, rlogin, rsh
and so on, get assigned a job ID.  In the Linux environment, jobs are created
via a PAM module.
.PP
In addition, it is possible for batch schedulers or similar programs to 
place certain processes in job containers for tracking or signaling purposes.
.PP
Jobs are managed by a userspace daemon process and have the following
characteristics:
.IP \(bu 4
A job is an inescapable container.  A process cannot leave the job
nor can a new process be created outside the job without explicit
action, that is, a system call with root privilege.
.IP \(bu 4
Each new process inherits the \f4jid\f1 from its parent process.
.IP \(bu 4
All point of entry processes (job initiators) create a new job
as configured.
.IP \(bu 4
Job initiation on Linux is performed via a PAM session module.
.IP \(bu 4
The job initiator performs authentication and security checks.
.IP \(bu 4
Not all processes on a system need be members of a job.
.IP \(bu 4
The process control initialization process (init(1M)) and startup
scripts called by init are not part of a job.
.PP
Job initiators can be categorized as either interactive or batch
processes.
.PP
\f4Note:\f1 The existing command jobs(1) applies to shell "jobs" and it is not
related to the feature described above.  The at(1), atd(8), atq(1), batch(1),
atrun(8), atrm(1)) man pages refer to shell scripts as a job.
a shell script.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR jwait (1),
.BR jstat (1),
.BR jkill (1)
