.\"
.\" (C) 2004-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This documentation supports a
.\" program that is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" The documentation that supports
.\" this program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" Further, this documentation and the software it
.\" supports, are distributed without any warranty that it is
.\" free of the rightful claim of any third person regarding infringement
.\" or the like.  Any license provided herein, whether implied or
.\" otherwise, applies only to this software file.  Patent licenses, if
.\" any, provided herein do not apply to combinations of this program with
.\" other software, or any other product whatsoever.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
.\" Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" Contact information:  Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1140 East Arques Avenue,
.\" Sunnyvale, CA  94085, or:
.\"
.\" http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.\" For further information regarding this notice, see:
.\"
.\" http://oss.sgi.com/projects/GenInfo/NoticeExplan
.\"
.TH csa_wracct 3
.SH NAME
csa_wracct \- write accounting record to file
.SH LIBRARY
Linux CSA Application Interface library (libcsa_api, -lcsa_api).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <csa_api.h>\f1
.sp 0
\f3#include <csaacct.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3int csa_wracct( struct csa_wra_req *wra_req );\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4csa_wracct\f1 library call is part of the \f7csa_api\f1 library that allows
processes to manipulate and obtain status about linux CSA accounting methods.
When the \f7csa_api\f1 library is to be used, the
\f3csa_api.h\f1 header file should be included to obtain the proper definitions.
In addition, the
\f3csaacct.h\f1 header file provides structure definitions that are necessary 
for CSA applications.
.PP
\f4csa_wracct\f1 
writes accounting record to file.
.PP
The caller should provide as a parameter a pointer to a variable of
data structure type csa_wra_req:
.PP 
.RS .3i
.EX
/*      
 * CSA_WRACCT request   
 */             
.sp 0
struct csa_wra_req {
    int             wra_did;        /* Daemon Index */
    int             wra_len;        /* Length of buffer (bytes) */
    uint64_t        wra_jid;        /* Job ID */
    char            *wra_buf;       /* Daemon accounting buffer */
.sp 0
};
.EE
.RE
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, \f4csa_wracct\f1 returns 0.
Otherwise, a value of -1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
Under the following conditions, the \f4csa_wracct\fP function
fails and sets \f2errno\fP to:
.TP 15
[EACCESS]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
The \f2wra_req\f1 argument points to an illegal address.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
An invalid argument was specified.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process does not have appropriate capability
to use this system call.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
No job table entry is found when attempting to start or stop user job accounting.
.SH SEE ALSO
csa_start(3), csa_stop(3), csa_halt(3), csa_check(3), csa_kdstat(3), csa_rcdstat(3), csa_jastart(3), csa_jastop(3), csa_auth(3)

