.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH job_create 3
.SH NAME
job_create \- Create a new job.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3#include <job.h>\f1
.sp .8v
\f3jid_t job_create( jid_t jid_requested, uid_t uid, int options );\f1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4job_create\f1 library call is part of the job library that allows
processes to manipulate and obtain status about linux jobs.
When the job library is to be used, the
\f3job.h\f1 header file should be included to obtain the proper definitions.
.PP
\f4job_create\f1 
will create a new job and attach the calling process to the new job.
.PP
If the process is already part of a job, it is detached from the current job
and attached to the new one.
.PP
The \f2jid_requested\f1 parameter allows the caller to specify a jid value
to use when creating the job.
If the caller wants the system to generate the job ID,
then set \f2jid_requested\f1 to 0.
The \f2uid\f1 parameter is used to supply the user ID
value for the user that will own the job.
The \f2options\f1 parameter is for future use.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon successful completion, \f2job_create\f1 returns
the job ID of the new job.
Otherwise, a value of (jid_t)-1 is returned and \f3errno\f1 is set to
indicate the error.
.PP
Note: The returned value is an unsigned integer.  To test for -1, you will 
need to use a cast.  Here is an example:
.br
.nf

  jid = job_create(0, getuid(), 0);
  if (jid == (jid_t)-1) {
          perror("job error");
  }
.fi
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
job_detachjid(3), job_detachpid(3), job_attachpid(3), job_getjid(3), job_getjidcnt(3), job_getjidlist(3), job_getpidcnt(3), job_getpidlist(3), job_getprimepid(3), job_getuid(3), job_killjid(3), job_sethid(3), job_waitjid(3),  job(7).

