.\"
.\" (C) 2000-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" This documentation supports a
.\" program that is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" The documentation that supports
.\" this program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" Further, this documentation and the software it
.\" supports, are distributed without any warranty that it is
.\" free of the rightful claim of any third person regarding infringement
.\" or the like.  Any license provided herein, whether implied or
.\" otherwise, applies only to this software file.  Patent licenses, if
.\" any, provided herein do not apply to combinations of this program with
.\" other software, or any other product whatsoever.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
.\" Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" Contact information:  Silicon Graphics, Inc., 1140 East Arques Avenue,
.\" Sunnyvale, CA  94085, or:
.\"
.\" http://www.sgi.com
.\"
.\" For further information regarding this notice, see:
.\"
.\" http://oss.sgi.com/projects/GenInfo/NoticeExplan
.\"
.TH ja 1
.SH NAME
ja \- starts and stops user job accounting information 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4ja\f1
[\f4-a\f1 \f2ash\f1]
[\f4-c\f1]
[\f4-d\f1]
[\f4-D\f1 \f2level\f1]
[\f4-e\f1]
[\f4-f\f1]
[\f4-g\f1 \f2gid\f1]
[\f4-h\f1]
[\f4-j\f1 \f2jid\f1]
[\f4-J\f1]
[\f4-l\f1]
[\f4-m\f1]
[\f4-M\f1 \f2marks\f1]
[\f4-n\f1 \f2names\f1]
[\f4-o\f1]
[\f4-p\f1 \f2projid\f1]
[\f4-r\f1]
[\f4-s\f1]
[\f4-t\f1]
[\f4-u\f1 \f2uid\f1]
[\f2file\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4ja\f1 command provides job-related accounting
information.
This information is taken from the job accounting file
to which the CSA daemon writes,
provided that job accounting is enabled.
The job accounting file can be either the \f2file\f1 you provide
or the default, described in the following.
\f4ja\f1 provides information only about terminated processes.
The login shell
and the current \f4ja\f1 command being executed
are active processes and are not reported by \f4ja\f1.
See \f4ps\f1(1) for information about active processes.
.PP
To enable job accounting, use the \f4ja\f1 command.
You may specify only the mark option (\f4-m\f1)
and the optional \f2file\f1 name when enabling.
If the job accounting file does not exist,
\f4ja\f1 creates it.
If the file does exist,
accounting information is appended to the existing file.
If job accounting is already enabled
and the optional filename specified is a file
other than the currently active job accounting file,
the newly specified file becomes the job accounting file.
.PP
If you do not specify the optional filename, the \f4ACCT_TMPDIR\f1
environment variable must be set to a directory.
If that variable is not set, the directory is assigned using the
\f4TMPDIR\f1 environment variable, or defaults to \f4/tmp\f1.
A default name of the following form is then used:
.sp .8v
.nf
.RS .5i
.ft 4
$ACCT_TMPDIR/.jacct<\f2jid\f1>
.sp .8v
.fi
.RE
The \f4ACCT_TMPDIR\f1 environment variable is not exported
in \f4at\f1(1) or \f4crontab\f1(1) jobs.
You must specify the job accounting filename
in the \f4at\f1(1) or \f4crontab\f1(1) commands;
otherwise, \f4ja\f1 will abort.
.sp .8v
On normal termination of job accounting (\f4-t\f1 specified),
\f4ja\f1 removes the default job accounting file and disables job accounting.
If you specify the optional filename when enabling,
specify the same name when terminating.
The optional job accounting file is not deleted by the \f4ja\f1 command.
.sp .8v
The \f4ja\f1 command lets you mark the positions of
various commands (processes)
by writing the position of the next accounting record
to be processed to standard output.
You can use these marks when generating reports
to restrict the information reported.
.sp .8v
There are four groups of options you can use with the
\f4ja\f1 command:
.br
.RS 5
Report selection options
.RE
.RS 7
\f4-c\f1,
\f4-f\f1,
\f4-o\f1,
\f4-s\f1
.RE
.br
.RS 5
Record selection options
.RE
.RS 7
\f4-a\f1 \f2ash\f1 (deferred),
\f4-g\f1 \f2gid\f1,
\f4-j\f1 \f2jid\f1,
\f4-M\f1 \f2marks\f1,
\f4-n\f1 \f2names\f1,
\f4-p\f1 \f2projid\f1 (deferred), and
\f4-u\f1 \f2uid\f1
.RE
.br
.RS 5
Report modifier options
.RE
.RS 7
\f4-d\f1,
\f4-e\f1,
\f4-h\f1,
\f4-J\f1,
\f4-l\f1
.RE
.br
.RS 5
Special options (debug, mark, raw, and disable)
.RE
.RS 7
\f4-D\f1,
\f4-m\f1,
\f4-r\f1, and
\f4-t\f1
.RE
.PP
.SS Report Selection Options
The \f4ja\f1 command can produce different types of reports by using
the \f4-c\f1, \f4-f\f1, \f4-o\f1, and \f4-s\f1 options.
The report-selection options are first summarized
and then described in detail.
.PP
In summary, the report selection options are as follows:
.TP
\f4-c\f1
Produces the command report
(\f4-c\f1 and \f4-o\f1 are mutually exclusive).
.TP
\f4-f\f1
Produces the command flow report.
.TP
\f4-o\f1
Produces the other (alternative) command report
(\f4-o\f1 and \f4-c\f1 are mutually exclusive).
.TP
\f4-s\f1
Produces the summary report.
.PP
Described in detail, the report selection options are as follows:
.TP
\f4-c\f1
Produces a command report.
The following fields are reported
when you specify the \f4-c\f1 option
with the \f4-l\f1 option
or with the \f4-l\f1 and \f4-h\f1 options.
These fields provide statistics about individual processes.
.RS 7
.TP 25
\f4Command Name\f1
First 15 characters of the name of the command that was
executed.
.TP
\f4Started At\f1
Start time of the process.
.TP
\f4Elapsed Seconds\f1
Elapsed time of the process.
.TP
\f4User CPU Seconds\f1
Amount of CPU time the process consumed
while it was executing in user mode.
.TP
\f4Sys CPU Seconds\f1
Amount of CPU time the process consumed
while it was executing in system mode.
.TP
\f4CPU Delay Secs\f1
Amount of time the process waits for a CPU, while runnable.
.TP
\f4Block I/O Delay Secs\f1
Amount of time the process waits for synchronous block I/O to complete.
.TP
\f4Swap In Delay Secs\f1
Amount of time the process waits for page fault I/O (swap in only).
.TP
\f4CPU MEM Avg Mbytes\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Average amount of memory that this process used.
This value is calculated by dividing the memory integral
by the total CPU time
(\f2system\f1 + \f2user CPU time\f1).
For more information on memory integrals, see
the \f2Comprehensive System Accounting for Linux\f1 manual.
.TP
\f4Characters Read\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Number of characters in Mbytes read
by the \f4read\f1, \f4readv\f1, and \f4\f1 system calls
(see \f4read\f1(2), \f4readv\f1(2), and \f4pread\f1(2)).
.TP
\f4Characters Written\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Number of characters in Mbytes written
by the \f4write\f1,  \f4writev\f1, and \f4pwrite\f1 system calls
(see \f4write\f1(2), \f4writev\f1(2),
and \f4pwrite\f1(2)).
.TP
\f4Logical I/O Read\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Number of logical I/O read requests that the process performed.
A logical I/O request is performed
each time a process calls a \f4read\f1, \f4readv\f1, or \f4pread\f1 system call.
.TP
\f4Logical I/O Write\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Number of logical I/O write requests that the process performed.
A logical I/O write request is performed
each time a process calls a \f4write\f1,
or \f4writev\f1, or \f4pwrite\f1 system call.
.TP
\f4CoreMem HiValue\f1
(\f4-h\f1) (\f4-l\f1) Maximum amount of core memory the process used at any one time.
The value is reported in Kbytes.
.TP
\f4VirtMem HiValue\f1
(\f4-h\f1) (\f4-l\f1) Maximum amount of virtual memory the process used at any one time.
The value is reported in Kbytes.
.TP
\f4Ex St\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Lower 8 bits from the exit status of the process.
See \f4wait\f1(2) for more information.
.TP
\f4Ni\f1
(\f4-l\f1) The last nice value of the process.
.TP
\f4Fl\f1
(\f4-l\f1) Accounting flag.
The following values are available:
.RE
.RS 32
.TP 7
\f4F\f1
The process forked but did not execute.
.TP
\f4S\f1
The process used superuser privileges.
.PP
The accounting flags are defined in
\f4/usr/include/csa.h\f1.
.RE
.RS 7
.TP 25
\f4SBUs\f1
System billing unit (SBU) for the process.
The system administrator configures SBU calculations.
For more information, see the \f2Comprehensive System Accounting for Linux\f1 manual.
.RE
.TP 7
\f4-f\f1
Produces a command flow report.
This report provides information on the
parent/child relationships of processes and,
if you specify the \f4-l\f1 option,
CPU user and system time (in seconds).
.TP
\f4-o\f1
Produces an alternative (other) command report.
The \f4-o\f1 option report contains the following fields,
which show statistics about individual processes.
.RS 7
.TP 26
\f4Command Name\f1
First 15 characters of the name of the command
that was executed.
.TP
\f4Started At\f1
Start time of the process.
.TP
\f4Elapsed Seconds\f1
Elapsed time of the process.
.TP
\f4Proc ID\f1
Process ID of the current process.
.TP
\f4Parent ProcID\f1
Process ID of the parent process.
.TP
\f4CoreMem HiWater\f1
Maximum amount of core memory the process used
at any one time.
The value is reported in Kbytes.
.TP
\f4VirtMem HiWater\f1
Maximum amount of virtual memory the process used
at any one time.
The value is reported in Kbytes.
.TP
\f4CPU Delay Count\f1
Number of CPU delay values
recorded for the process.
.TP
\f4Block I/O Delay Count\f1
Number of synchronous block I/O delay values
recorded for the process.
.TP
\f4Swap In Delay Count\f1
Number of page fault I/O (swap in) delay values
recorded for the process.
.TP
\f4Real Run Time Secs\f1
CPU "wall-clock" running time.
On some architectures, the value is adjusted for CPU time stolen
from the kernel in involuntary waits due to virtualization.
.TP
\f4Virt Run Time Secs\f1
Time intervals seen by the kernel.
No adjustment for involuntary waits due to virtualization.
.RE
.TP 7
\f4-s\f1
Produces a summary report.
The \f4-s\f1 option report contains the following fields,
which provide accumulated usage statistics for the reporting period.
.RS 7
.TP 30
\f4Job Accounting Filename\f1
Name of the file to which the kernel
writes the \f4ja\f1 accounting records.
.TP
\f4Operating System\f1
Operating system name, node name, release, version, and hardware type.
.TP
\f4User Name (ID)\f1
Name and user ID of the real user.
.TP
\f4Group Name (ID)\f1
Name and group ID of the real group.
.TP
\f4Project Name (ID)\f1
Project name and project number that this process uses (deferred).
Multiple project ID usage is listed, but not individual projects.
.TP
\f4Job ID\f1
Job ID associated with these processes.
.TP
\f4Report Starts\f1
Starting time of the process
that began first during the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Report Ends\f1
Ending time of the process that was the last to complete
during the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Elapsed Time\f1
Duration of the reporting period in seconds
(the difference between the report ending and starting times).
.TP 30
\f4User CPU Time\f1
Total CPU time (in seconds) used during the reporting period
while the processes were in user mode.
.TP
\f4System CPU Time\f1
Total CPU time (in seconds) used
during the reporting period
while the processes were in system mode.
.TP
\f4CPU Time Core Memory Integral (Mbyte-seconds)\f1
Sum of the core memory integrals for all processes.
For more information on memory integrals, see the \f2Comprehensive System Accounting for Linux\f1 manual.
.TP
\f4CPU Time Virtual Memory Integral (Mbyte-seconds)\f1
Sum of the virtual memory integrals for all processes.
.TP
\f4Maximum Core Memory Used (Mbytes)\f1
Maximum amount of core memory used by any process at one time.
.TP
\f4Maximum Virtual Memory Used (Mbytes)\f1
Maximum amount of virtual memory used by any process at one time.
.TP
\f4Characters Read\f1
Total number of characters read by the \f4read\f1(2), \f4readv\f1(2),
and \f4pread\f1(2) system calls
by all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Characters Written\f1
Total number of characters written by the \f4write\f1(2),
\f4writev\f1(2), and \f4pwrite\f1(2) system calls
by all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Logical I/O Read Requests\f1
Total number of \f4read\f1(2), \f4readv\f1(2), and \f4pread\f1.
system calls executed by all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Logical I/O Write Requests\f1
Total number of \f4write\f1(2) and \f4writev\f1(2) system calls executed by
all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4CPU Delay\f1
Total CPU delay (in seconds),
summed over all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Block I/O Delay\f1
Total synchronous block I/O delay (in seconds),
summed over all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Swap In Delay\f1
Total page fault I/O (swap in) delay (in seconds),
summed over all processes in the reporting period.
.TP
\f4Number of Commands\f1
Total number of commands that completed during the reporting period.
.TP
\f4System Billing Units\f1
Sum of the system billing units (SBUs) of all processes.
.RE
.PP
.SS Mark and Disable Options
The mark and disable options are as follows:
.TP 7
\f4-m\f1
Writes the position of the next accounting record to standard output.
This can be used to mark various positions within the job accounting
file for later use with the \f4-M\f1 option.
The position marked is the byte offset of the current
end-of-information of the job accounting file.
(\f4-m\f1 cannot be used with the report selection and
modifier options nor with the \f4-t\f1 disable option.)
.TP
\f4-t\f1
Disables (terminates) job accounting.
(\f4-m\f1 and \f4-t\f1 are mutually exclusive).
.SS Record Selection Options
.TP 10
\f4-a\f1 \f2ash\f1
Report is for this array session handle (\f2ash\f1) only. (deferred)
.TP
\f4-g\f1 \f2gid\f1
Report is for this group identifier (\f2gid\f1) or
group name only.
.TP
\f4-j\f1 \f2jid\f1
Report is for this job identifier (\f2jid\f1) only.
.TP
\f4-u\f1 \f2uid\f1
Report is for this user identifier (\f2uid\f1) or user name only.
.TP
\f4-n\f1 \f2names\f1
Shows only commands matching names patterns
that may be regular expressions, as in \f4ed\f1(1),
except that a + symbol indicates one or more occurrences.
.TP
\f4-p\f1 \f2projid\f1
Report is for this project identifier (\f2projid\f1) or project name only. (deferred)
.TP
\f4-M\f1 \f2marks\f1
Shows only commands within the marked range.
This can be a list of ranges with each list item
having the following form:
.RS 10
.TP 20
\&\f4.\f1
First command preceding current position
.TP
\f4m1\f1
First command following mark
.TP
\f4m1:\f1
All commands between the mark and EOF
.TP
\f4m1:m2\f1
All commands between the two marks
.TP
\f4:m1\f1
All commands between BOF and the mark
.TP
\f4:\f1
All commands between BOF and EOF (default)
.PP
See the \f4-m\f1 option for information on how to obtain marks.
.RE
.SS Report Modifier Options
Report modifier options must be used
with at least one selection option.
The report modifier options are as follows:
.TP 7
\f4-d\f1
Reports on workload management usage.
.TP 7
\f4-e\f1
Generates an extended summary report;
you must use \f4-e\f1 with the \f4-s\f1 option.
The following are descriptions of fields produced by specifying
the \f4-e\f1 option with the \f4-s\f1 option.
These fields provide additional
accumulated statistics for the reporting period:
.RS 7
.TP 14
\f4Number of Page Swaps\f1
Number of times the pages were swapped out of memory.
.TP
\f4Number of Minor Page Faults\f1
Number of minor page faults.
.TP
\f4Number of Manor Page Faults\f1
Number of major page faults.
.TP
\f4Number of CPU Delays\f1
Number of CPU delay values.
.TP
\f4Number of Block I/O Delays\f1
Number of synchronous block I/O delay values.
.TP
\f4Number of Swap In Delays\f1
Number of page fault I/O (swap in) delay values.
.TP
\f4CPU Real Run Time\f1
Cumulative CPU "wall-clock" running time (in seconds).
On some architectures, the value is adjusted for CPU time stolen
from the kernel in involuntary waits due to virtualization.
.TP
\f4CPU Virtual Run Time\f1
Cumulative time intervals seen by the kernel (in seconds).
No adjustment for involuntary waits due to virtualization.
.RE
.TP 7
\f4-h\f1
Provides the largest amount of core and virtual memory the
process used at one time in 1K units.
Used only with both the \f4-c\f1 and \f4-l\f1
options.
.TP
\f4-J\f1
Provides job ID and start/end times.
.TP
\f4-l\f1
Provides additional information when used with
the \f4-c\f1 or \f4-f\f1 options.
.TP 7
\f4-r\f1
Raw mode, no headers are printed.
.TP
\f4-D\f1
Enables debugging for the \f4ja\f1 command.
Valid values are 1 through 4.
Debugging is off by default.
A debug level greater than one provides program flow information.
A debug level greater than three provides additional information 
about records which are skipped over due
to the requested \f4ja\f1 record selection options.
.SH EXAMPLES
Examples 1 and 2 show the usage of the \f4-m\f1 and
\f4-M\f1 options with standard shell and Korn shell variables.
.PP
Example 1:
.PP
.nf
.RS .5i
.ft 4
ja                #enable job accounting
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Miscellaneous commands\fP)
     \&.
m1=`ja -m`        #mark job accounting file's current position
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Commands of special interest\fP)
     \&.
m2=`ja -m`        #mark job accounting file's current position
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Miscellaneous commands\fP)
     \&.
ja -cM $m1:$m2   #print command report from mark m1 to mark m2
ja -st           #print summary report for entire session and disable
                  job accounting
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.PP
Example 2:
.PP
.nf
.RS .5i
.ft 4
ja            #enable job accounting
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Miscellaneous commands\fP)
     \&.
m1=`ja -m`    #mark job accounting file's current position
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Commands of special interest\fP)
     \&.
ja -cM $m1:   #print command report from mark to EOF
     \&.
     \&.  (\f2Miscellaneous commands\fP)
     \&.
ja -st        #print summary report for entire session and disable
               job accounting
.ft 1
.RE
.fi
.PP
Example 3:
.PP
This example shows example output when you use the \f4-c\f1 option.
.PP
.nf
.ft 7
.sp .8v
\s-1
Job Accounting - Command Report
===============================
.sp .8v

    Command       Started    Elapsed    User CPU    Sys CPU       CPU      Block I/O    Swap In  
     Name           At       Seconds    Seconds     Seconds    Delay Secs  Delay Secs  Delay Secs   SBU's 
===============  ========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  =======
# CFG   ON(    1) (    6)  10:57:53 11/28/2000  System:  Linux porsche07 2.4.0-test7.csa.1
#9 SMP Sun Nov 12 10:17:23 CST 2000 i686
ja               10:57:53        0.33       0.26       0.01          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
who              10:58:19        0.02       0.00       0.01          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
ja               10:58:32        0.26       0.25       0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
csacom           10:58:51        0.01       0.01       0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
ls               11:23:27        0.02       0.01       0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
ls               11:24:40        0.01       0.01       0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
ls               11:24:44        0.01       0.00       0.01          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
vi               11:24:50      151.95       0.00       0.02          0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
\s+1
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
The \f4# CFG ON\f1 output line is a configuration record written 
when job accounting was enabled via the \f4ja\f1 command.
This record contains the daemon accounting types enabled,
record accounting types enabled, last system boot-time, and
system identification information.
.PP
Example 4:
.PP
The following example shows the output of the \f4-s\f1 option:
.PP
.nf
.ft 7
.sp .8v
Job CSA Accounting - Summary Report
====================================
.sp .8v
Job Accounting File Name         : /tmp/username.ja
Operating System                 : Linux porsche07 2.4.0-test7.csa.1 #9 SMP Sun 
Nov 12 10:17:23 CST 2000 i686
User Name (ID)                   : username (10320)
Group Name (ID)                  : resmgmt (16061)
Project Name (ID)                : ? (0)
Job ID                           : 0xa0700000041fe
Report Starts                    : 12/13/00 10:19:50
Report Ends                      : 12/13/00 10:19:55
Elapsed Time                     :            5      Seconds
User CPU Time                    :            0.2900 Seconds
System CPU Time                  :            0.0350 Seconds
CPU Time Core Memory Integral    :            0.0055 Mbyte-seconds
CPU Time Virtual Memory Integral :            0.0139 Mbyte-seconds
Maximum Core Memory Used         :            1.1602 Mbytes
Maximum Virtual Memory Used      :            2.0898 Mbytes
Characters Read                  :            0.1482 Mbytes
Characters Written               :            0.0010 Mbytes
Logical I/O Read Requests        :           61
Logical I/O Write Requests       :           16
CPU Delay                        :            0.0160 Seconds
Block I/O Delay                  :            0.0385 Seconds
Swap In Delay                    :            0.0000 Seconds
Number of Commands               :            5
System Billing Units             :            0.0000
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
at(1),
crontab(1),
csa(8),
csacom(1),
sh(1),
pread(2),
pwrite(2),
read(2),
readv(2),
wait(2),
write(2),
writev(2),
