.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH JSTAT 1 "4 October 2005" "Linux Utilities" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
jstat \- displays job status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "jstat" " [-a | -j jid]" " -l" " -p" 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f4jstat\f1 command displays information for
active jobs.
.PP
The \f4jstat\f1 command accepts the following options:
.TP 20
\f4-a\f1
Displays information about all jobs.
.TP
\f4-j\f1 \f2job_id\f1
Displays information only for the specified job ID (\f2jid\f1).
.TP
\f4-l\f1
This option is not yet implemented.
.TP
\f4-p\f1
Print process information about the job or jobs including JID, Owner, 
PID, PPID, and command.
.PP
If neither the \f4-a\f1 or \f4-j\f1 option are specified it is assumed that the
job in question is for the current process.
.PP 
If no options are specified, the \f4jstat\f1 command will return the
current jid, user name of the job owner, and primary (oldest) command
for that job.  The job ID is printed out in hexadecimal.
.RS .5i
.sp .8v
\f4% jstat\f1
.sp .8v
JID             OWNER          COMMAND
.sp 0v
--------------- -------------- --------------
.sp 0v
0x17            dan            -ksh
.RE
.PP
If the \f4-j\f1 option with a \f2jid\f1 argument is specified, the \f4jstat\f1 command will return summary information
for the entered job: jid, owner, and command.
The \f2jid\f1 argument is expected in hexadecimal.
The "0x" prefix is optional.
.RS .5i
.sp .8v
\f4% jstat -j 0xab001f00000000ba14\f1
.sp .8v
.Ex
JID                OWNER          COMMAND
.sp 0v
------------------ -------------- --------------
.sp 0v
0xab001f000000ba14 janet          -csh
.Ee
.RE
.PP
If the  \f4-p\f1 option is specified, the \f4jstat\f1 command will print out
information for each process that belongs to that job.
Process information includes the job JIDs, PIDs, PPIDs, and COMMAND information for the job.
Summary information is always printed.
.PP
.RS .5i
.sp .8v
\f4% jstat -p\f1
.sp .8v
.Ex
JID                PID      PPID     COMMAND
.sp 0v
------------------ -------- -------- --------------
.sp 0v
0xab001f000000ba14 2225     2308     -csh
.sp 0v
0xab001f000000ba14 2350     2225     jstat -p
.Ee
.RE
.PP
If the \f4-a\f1 option is specified,
the \f4jstat\f1 command  prints out information for all jobs on
the system.
.RS .5i
.sp .8v
\f4% jstat -a\f1
.sp .8v
.Ex
JID                OWNER          COMMAND
.sp 0v
------------------ -------------- --------------
.sp 0v
0xab001f0000000e9a root           -ksh
.sp 0v
0xab001f000000ba14 janet          -csh
.sp 0v
0xab001f000000ba18 dan            -ksh
.Ee
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
jwait (1),
jkill (1),
job (7)
